# jupyter-ipcc-ext
Jupyter extension supporting FAIR principles


## User story

IPCC authors create a Jupyter notebook to generate a figure to be included in an IPCC report. This notebook loads an IPCC extension that lets authors includes provenance information (software used, datasets used), as well as credit information (citable DOIs for papers, software and datasets). 

This information is either stored within the notebook's metadata, or in a sidecar file. The credit information can later be used to create a Complex Citation Object (CCO), a citation embedding multiple citations. By citing the CCO in IPCC reports, providers of input data and software would get credit for their work. 

Note that the CCO is in development and no standard has been agreed yet. 

## Requirements

* Provenance information should be machine-readable and ideally compatible with provenance metadata generated by the [CMIP7 Rapid Evaluation Framework](https://wcrp-cmip.org/cmip-phases/cmip7/rapid-evaluation-framework/).
* Authors should be able to review and edit the provenance and credit metadata manually using a simple GUI within the Jupyter interface.
* Authors should be able to export the credit information (maybe as bibtex while CCO is being defined).

## Ideas

* For Python kernels, the `import` command could be overloaded to store explicit imports and their version;
* For each imported package, fetch the CITATION.cff from the source repo and create a citation;
* Inspect the compute environment to get a detailed listing of installed packages;
* Use [Myst citation logic](https://mystmd.org/guide/citations) in notebooks (see this [PR](https://github.com/jupyter-book/jupyterlab-myst/pull/161)). Authors would simply have to cite papers and datasets to create a bibliography, which I imagine could also be exported as a CCO. 

